my son do not forget my law but let your
heart keep my commands for length of
days and long life and peace they will
add to you let not mercy and truth
forsake you bind them around your neck
write them on the tablet of your heart
and so find favor and high esteem in the
sight of God and man trust in the Lord
and lean not on your own understanding
in all your ways acknowledge him and he
shall direct your paths do not be wise
in your own eyes fear the Lord and
depart from evil it will be health to
your flesh and strength to your bones
honor the Lord with your possessions and
with the firstfruits of all your inmates
so your barns will be filled with plenty
and your vats will overflow with the new
wine my son do not despise the
chastening of the Lord nor detest his
correction for whom the Lord loves he
corrects just as a father the son in
whom he delights happy is the man who
finds wisdom and the man who gains
understanding for her proceeds are
better than the profits of silver and
her gain than a fine gold
she is more precious than rubies and all
the things you may desire cannot compare
with her length of days is in her right
in her left hand riches and honor her
ways are ways of pleasantness and all
her paths are peace she is a tree of
life to those who take hold of her and
happy are all who retain her the Lord by
wisdom founded the earth by
understanding he established the heavens
by his knowledge the debts were broken
up and clouds drop down that you my son
let them not depart from your eyes keep
sound wisdom and discretion so they will
be life to your soul and grace to your
neck then you will walk safely in your
way and your foot will not stumble when
you lie down you will not be afraid yes
you will lie down and your sleep will be
sweet do not be afraid of sudden terror
nor of trouble from the wicked when it
comes for the Lord
be your confidence and will keep your
foot from being caught do not withhold
good from those to whom it is due when
it is in the power of your hand to do so
do not say to your neighbor go and come
back and tomorrow I will give it when
you have it with you do not devise evil
against your neighbour for he dwells by
you for safety's sake do not strive with
a man without cause if he has done you
no harm do not envy the oppressor and
choose none of his ways for the perverse
person is an abomination to the Lord but
his secret counsel is with the upright
the curse of the Lord is on the house of
the wicked but he blesses the home of
the just surely he scorns the scornful
but gives grace to the humble the wise
shall inherit glory but shame shall be
the legacy of fools
[Music]